- [Instructor] One of the greatest benefits
of using Git is that it integrates
with many different software development tools.
Today, one of the most important tools
for software development teams use
is their continuous integration
and continuous delivery tool, or CI/CD.
Let's take a few minutes to discuss CI/CD
and its relationship with Git.
Developers working on a software development team
will normally work on code independently
using their local machine.
At some point, that code must be integrated
into a shared code repository with everyone else's changes.
This is often a point of failure
and a pain point for development teams
because conflicts wind up being committed
into the repository.
Continuous integration can alleviate these headaches caused
by Big Bang integrations.
When integrations occur at the end of a project,
it's very painful.
Developers try to merge large blocks of code,
often to meet a deadline.
Continuous integration mandates that we commit our changes
and integrate our code frequently.
With every commit, we build the software
via an automated process that's designed
to ensure its integrity.
This alleviates the issues that teams experience.
By keeping integration small in scope
and identifying issues early in the development process,
we avoid the Big Bang merge.
Integration issues are resolved early
and do not snowball into these unmanageable tasks
completed at the 11th hour.
Your source control system is essential
to a continuous integration.
The CI tool will likely be set up to scan the repository
for any changes, Git's a great choice
because almost every CI tool provides first-class support.
Another key tenet of CI is that code
within the repository is kept in working conditions
at all times.
When builds break, it's a stop-the-world event for a team
and they have to fix it immediately.
Automating builds provides us with a way
to perform integrity checks, or quality assurance,
against our code via a CI pipeline.
This alleviates work on development teams
and reduces errors they may encounter.
This visual depicts continuous integration in action.
Developers push changes to the version control system,
which in our case is Git.
The CI tool monitors the repository,
and once the changes are detected,
it compiles the code on a build server
and conducts automated testing of the code.
If the test failed, the development team is notified
so they can resolve any issues with the code
or role back a possible commit.
Teams can extend their continuous integration efforts
to include continuous delivery.
Continuous delivery simply automates
the deployment process for development
and test environments.
Passing builds are automatically deployed
once quality assurance is completed
so that the code can be reviewed by acceptance testers.
Let's take a moment to discuss why teams
embrace CI/CD practices.
The benefits are pretty obvious.
The sheer amount of automation in CI/CD
improves your team's productivity.
Repeatable tasks focused on building, testing,
and releasing software are now achieved through automation.
This frees your team members from the manual tasks
they were once required to complete
to push software to production through its pipeline.
Productivity is also increased
because we avoid problem-filled massive integrations
late in the game.
With the CI/CD pipeline, automated quality assurance
measures are introduced that maintain the quality
of your product.
Under the CI/CD paradigm, we can be confident
that each change has been subjected
to our quality assurance checks
that are built into our pipeline.
Automation of quality assurance activities increases
the integrity of the source code,
and ultimately, the product.
Issues are flushed out early
and addressed before they pose a large risk
to the new software.
These benefits ultimately create a more Agile
software development team that is able
to better deliver changes.
Finally, let's take a few minutes to review several CI tools
that you have available to you.
Specifically, we'll be taking a look at Jenkins, GitLab,
and Team Foundation Server, or TFS.
First let's cover Jenkins.
Jenkins is a CI server written in Java.
Traditionally, Jenkins was self-hosted,
however, CloudBees now provides a cloud-hosted option.
Jenkins is very popular and is the open-source leader
in the CI space.
There's a vast community of developers that use
and support the product, including a large set
of plugins available to you.
The plugin library provides integration
with common third-party tools.
Now let's talk about GitLab's CI offering.
In addition to GitLab's primary repository management role,
the platform has a CI feature
that relies on a tool called GitLab Runners.
Runners integrate with both self-hosted
and cloud-hosted GitLab repository managers.
Multiple Runners can be established
to distribute the workload of performing tests and builds.
Finally, let's cover Microsoft's Team Foundation Server.
TFS is an incredibly popular collaborative
software development tool that integrates tightly
with Visual Studio.
It is the premiere choice for developers
using the Microsoft stack.
Team Foundation Server is commonly used by Agile teams
for its workload management and testing features.
Within the TFS platform, the CI tool provides all
the capabilities of traditional CI servers,
such as automated builds, tests, and deployments,
however, TFS tightly integrates these products,
providing traceability of the team's work.
Moving forward, we are going to stick with GitLab
and explore the platform's continuous integration features
using GitLab's CI Runner.